# self contained components (chapter 1)
	
##Intro

	def: It is a reuse-based approach to defining, implementing and composing loosely coupled independent components into systems.

	Some of goals (benefits) of a software component as described above are that they be:
		Reusable
		Portable
		Consumable
		Consistent
		Maintainable
		Encapsulated
		Loosely coupled
		Quick to implement
		Self describing (semantic)

	w3c: reusable blocks of UI presentation and behavior entirely with client side languages- HTML, JavaScript and CSS

	problems of the first generation frameworks:
			excessive code devoted to DOM querying, setting up event bindings
			hard dependencies between the DOM html and JavaScript application code
	-> design patterns needed: mvc separation, publish and subscribe, dependency injection
	at any level of the DOM node tree

	AngularJs took care of all the common boilerplate involved in DOM querying/manipulation and event binding. This allowed the code base to be drastically reduced and the engineers to focus specifically on the application logic and presentation.
	In addition to hiding the DOM binding boilerplate, it also encouraged a high degree of functional transparency*, TDD or test-driven development, DRY meaning don’t repeat yourself and allowed dynamic DOM behavior to be included in HTML markup declaratively.
	AngularJS directives are a framework convention for creating custom extensions to HTML that can encapsulate both the view and behavior of a UI component such as a site search bar in a way that can limit external dependencies, as well as, providing for very flexible configuration parameters that any application or container level code may wish to provide.

	@see: 1.0 Basic comparison of jQuery and AngularJS: Angular removes the boilerplate (HOW)

	AngularJs 1: create re-usable, exportable UI components that are quite similar to the maturing W3C specification for Web Components
	AngularJs 2: evolve towards supporting the new specification as browsers begin to support it.

## Web components
	The component model for the Web (“Web Components”) consists of five pieces:

	Templates, which define chunks of markup that are inert but can be activated for use later.
	Decorators, which apply templates based on CSS selectors to affect rich visual and behavioral changes to documents.
	Custom Elements, which let authors define their own elements, with new tag names and new script interfaces.
	Shadow DOM, which encapsulates a DOM subtree for more reliable composition of user interface elements.
	Imports, which defines how templates, decorators and custom elements are packaged and loaded as a resource.

## Design patterns
	bad practice: ID reference strings synced between HTML and code
	At the most basic level, this is an example of tight coupling between model and view, or between UI component and the containing page. For “high quality” UI components, meaning those that accomplish the goals listed earlier, the UI component should not know about anything outside of itself such as the page HTML. The component should provide an API for injecting the data and configuration in to it as its only source of dependencies, and a component should never have to communicate directly with another component when it performs some action

### MVC
		
		limiting interdependencies between the three layers presentation, controller, business logic. Code written in this fashion is easier to maintain and upgrade, as any layer can be changed without affecting the rest of the code.

### IOC
		“invert control” of the application from the container to the application itself by allowing the application to pick and choose loading only the dependencies it knows its going to need. -> higher functional or referential transparency -> higher maintainability and testability

### Observer & Mediator
		indirect communication between UI components: The solution is for a component to shout about what is does blindly, and to listen in the same way -> polluted with event handling code. A mediator is a function or component whose job it is to know about the other components and facilitate communication between them.

### Module
		encapsulation, import dependencies, export functionality to make it available

	Angular does this better than the other frameworks available: all is encapsulated in a directive
