# web component specs (chapter 8)

	we’ve had workarounds in the form of UI frameworks for the better part of the last decade that handle tasks like templating, encapsulation, and data-binding, the standards committees are now discussing adding these features to ECMA Script and the DOM APIs. 
	
	Certain forward looking framework authors, including the AngularJS team, are well aware of the proposed standards and are now incorporating them into their product roadmaps.

## status

	These are proposals

	TODO most is in draft: http://www.w3.org/standards/techs/components#w3c_all. Note this is only readable by "browser builders"
	TODO ES6, in detail, this would be another sig: https://leanpub.com/understandinges6/read/
	
## custom elements

	HTMLElement vs HTMLUnknownElement

	Custom tags: Creating and registering a custom element: currently only possible with javascript, @see 8.0 Creating a Custom Element in its Simplest Form
	
	Type extension elements: Extending an existing element, @see 8.1 Extending an Existing Element in its Simplest Form

	Element Lifecycle Callbacks and Custom Properties, @see 8.2 Custom Element Lifecycle Callbacks

	To recap on custom element definitions, they consist of the custom element type, the local name (tag name), the custom prototype, and lifecycle callbacks.
	
## shadow dom

	CSS bleed: encapsulate your widget’s look and feel from the styling in the parent page
	
	all major browsers already use it underneath some of the more complex elements like <select> or <input type="date">. These tags have their own child DOM trees of which they are rendered from. The only thing missing is an API giving the common web developer access to the same encapsulation tools.
	
	Shadow DOM provides encapsulation for the embedded HTML and CSS of a UI component. Javascript can be encapsulated via function blocks (ES5) and modules and classes (ES6)
	
	Tree of trees, shadow host, shadow root(s), shadow dom
	
	content insertion point: Any regular element content will be transposed into the <content> element body wherever it may be located in the shadow DOM.
	
	shadow insertion point: If shadow tag is present in the youngest shadow root
	
	CSS and shadow dom encapsulation: cross shadow dom boundaries: immature spec
	
## template

	established standard, implemented (not IE)
	
	<template> tags are the ideal location to stick all the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript that we would want to encapsulate as shadow DOM in our web component definition.
		
	define, attach template: @see 8.4 Activating <template> Content
	
	a Real Web component anno 2014: @see 8.5 <template> Tag + Shadow DOM + Custom Element = Web Component!
	
## html import

	client-side include of a document as a whole -> keeping component code organizationally encapsulated
	
	not the same as server side includes: here there are multiple sub-doms
	
## javascript friends of web components

### Object.observe - No More Dirty Checking!

	being notified instead of having to detect changes ourselves. No more need of wrappers or comparing values
	
	only standard in ES7, most browsers will pre-implement
	
	--> less bulky code for web components
	
### More ES6 features

#### Modules and Module Loaders

	Instead of requirejs and commonjs
	
	ES6 modules will help provide solid boundaries and encapsulation for web component code

#### and some more: promises, classes, template strings, proxies

#### google traceur compiles ES6 to ES5: http://kangax.github.io/compat-table/es6/


there are some suggestions for increasing the likelihood that major portions of code will not need to be rewritten. 

The first suggestion is keeping the components you write today as encapsulated as possible. In this manner eventually you will be able to drop the JavaScript in a module, and the HTML/CSS into template elements and strings.

The second suggestion is to keep up to date with the specifications process concerning Web Components and ES6/7. Also watch the progress of major browser, and framework implementations of these standards. Take time to do some programming in ES6 with Traceur, and with Web Components using Chrome Canary, and the WC frameworks that we shall introduce in the next chapter. By making this a habit, you will develop a feel for how you should be organizing your code for the pending technologies.